- Utility first Css framework.
- It doesn't come with predefined css.
- UI kits are good.
- Tailwind also has specific UI library.
- It uses Just in time compiler(JIT).
- Tailwind is a dev dependency which means its not visible in the production.
## How does Tailwind work:-
- We create element attach a class to them.
- We can use classes and add them to element which we can add to the element.
- These are called utilities.
- We write utilities and tailwind creates its class.
- NO use of BEM Method.

```html
<h1 class="text-center text-lg text-blue-400">Hello World</h1>
```

```css
.text-center {
  text-align: center;
}

.text-lg {
  font-size: var(--text-lg);
  line-height: var(--tw-leading, var(--text-lg--line-height));
}

.text-blue-400 {
  color: var(--color-blue-400);
}
```
*these are the utilities classes generated by tailwind themselves for each of the tailwind utilities.*

--- 

## What is BEM Method:-
--- 
## Types of Tailwind classes:-

- We can use a Square bracket to add to add special type of the css.

## Layout:-
- Arrangement and positioning of element of the website.
- Tailwind provides :-
	 1. Aspect Ratio
	 2. Box Sizing 
	 3. float 
	 4. Position
	 5. Overflow
	 6. Z-index
#### Position:
- It determines how an Html element is positioned within its containing element or overall website.
- It can be Relative, absolute, fixed, sticky
#### Display:-
- Determines how the element behaves in terms of layout and visibility within the document.
- Control how the element are displayed
	1. Block
	2. inline 
	3. inline Block
	4. none
	5. flex/Grid
## Media-query:-
- These allows you to use for responsiveness.
- We use previously defined responsive settings in the tailwind for modifier.
- `max-sm`

## Pseudo-Classes:-
- we can give pseudo classes like hover, Active, Nth element.
- Using focus and hover is directly use this
## Dark Mode:-
- using config to create Dark class.
- then creating `dark:` in each of the elements.
## Reusability:-
- create separate components
- using directive in the CSS file.
- Using Component library:-
	 1. [shadcn](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation)
	 2. [tailwindui]()
	 3. [headlessui](https://headlessui.com/v1)
*they will give a component to use the css pre-applied*

```CSS
@layer components{
  .cards{
    @apply m-10 rounded-lg bg-white px-6 py-6 shadow-xl ring-1 ring-slate-900/5
  }
}
```

*making a new .cards class in main CSS file to use in the other file with same class name.*

## NOTES:-
- **We are writing inline**: we are not just using classes for each of the element.
- **How to remember**: you will get muscle memory for the use of tailwind.
- USE DOCS 